Hackathon Problem Statements – Building AI Agents with Hindsight & cascadeflow 
HACKATHON 
PROBLEM STATEMENTS 
Building AI Agents with cascadeflow and Hindsight 
In this hackathon, you will build AI-powered applications using Hindsight, a memory system 
developed by Vectorize that allows AI agents to remember, recall, and improve over time. 
You will also be using cascadeflow, an in-process runtime intelligence layer that optimizes cost, 
latency, and model routing—so your agent runs smarter without burning through API credits. 
Instead of building AI that forgets conversations and wastes money on every call, your project 
should demonstrate persistent memory, intelligent runtime control, or both. 
Why Are We Sponsoring This Hackathon? 
We believe young people are the future of this industry. The ideas, energy, and fresh 
perspective that come from builders early in their careers are exactly what push technology 
forward, and we want to invest in that. 
We also know it is harder than ever for college grads to break into high-paying tech jobs. The 
bar keeps rising, job postings ask for years of experience on technologies that barely existed 
last year, and it can feel like the door is closing. We want to help pry it back open. A strong 
hackathon project is one of the most credible ways to prove you can build, and we want to give 
you a real platform to do that. 
Most of all, we want you to showcase your creativity. Hindsight is a powerful memory layer and 
cascadeflow is a powerful runtime intelligence layer, and we are genuinely excited to see how 
you use them to bring your ideas to life. Build something that is unmistakably yours, and let this 
be the project you point to when someone asks what you can do. 
Why This Hackathon Matters for Your Career 
The AI agent space is exploding, and companies are hiring people who can build, not just talk 
about it. This hackathon is your chance to walk away with a working project that demonstrates 
you can ship an AI agent that solves a real problem. 
Here is what is at stake for you personally: 
Build Your Portfolio, Not Just a Weekend Toy 
Page 1 
Hackathon Problem Statements – Building AI Agents with Hindsight & cascadeflow 
The best hackathon projects don’t just win prizes. They become the thing you link on your 
LinkedIn profile, your GitHub pinned repo, and the story you tell in interviews for the next two 
years. And it wouldn’t be the first time a startup evolves out of a hackathon. Pick a problem that 
a real business would actually pay to solve, and build toward that. 
Learn by Doing What the Industry Needs Right Now 
Stateless chatbots are yesterday’s news. The frontier is agents with memory: agents that learn 
from past interactions, adapt to user behavior, and get better over time. And the reality of 
production AI is cost control: knowing which model to use, when to escalate, and how to enforce 
budgets. Hindsight and cascadeflow give you hands-on experience with both. That is a skill set 
that is immediately valuable. 
Ship Something You Would Actually Use 
The projects that stand out (to judges, to recruiters, to future collaborators) are the ones where 
the builder clearly cared about the problem. Don’t chase what sounds impressive. Build 
something that solves a pain point you have actually experienced. 
Required Technology 
All teams must build their projects using at least one of the following: 
Hindsight 
Agent memory – retain, recall, reflect. Your agent 
remembers what it learned across sessions. 
cascadeflow 
Runtime intelligence – makes your agent 
production-ready: cost control, budget 
enforcement, model routing, and a full audit trail 
of every decision your agent made.  
Projects using both technologies together are encouraged but not required. 
Hindsight Official Links 
• Hindsight Documentation: https://hindsight.vectorize.io/ 
• GitHub: https://github.com/vectorize-io/hindsight 
• Hindsight Cloud: https://ui.hindsight.vectorize.io 
cascadeflow Official Links 
• cascadeflow Documentation: https://docs.cascadeflow.ai/ 
• GitHub: https://github.com/lemony-ai/cascadeflow 
• Quick Start: https://docs.cascadeflow.ai/get-started/installation 
Resources 
Page 2 
Hackathon Problem Statements – Building AI Agents with Hindsight & cascadeflow 
You can use Hindsight Cloud to quickly get a Hindsight instance, or the open source version. 
Use promo code MEMHACK515 to get $50 in free credits on Hindsight Cloud. You add this 
AFTER you register in the billing section. 
Join the Hindsight Community Slack to ask any questions about how to use Hindsight. 
cascadeflow is open source and free to use. Install via pip install cascadeflow (Python) or 
npm install @cascadeflow/core (TypeScript). No API key required for the library itself. 
Questions and integration bugs: https://github.com/lemony-ai/cascadeflow/issues — post your 
question there, it helps other builders too. 
Strongly suggested: 
• Follow Vectorize on LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/company/vectorizeio/  
• Follow Vectorize on X: https://x.com/Vectorizeio 
• Follow cascadeflow on Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/company/cascadeflow  
We recognize high quality projects and tag your work which can help you raise your visibility 
with potential employers. 
LLM Access 
You can use any LLM you want, but Groq is super fast and has a generous free tier: 
https://groq.com/ 
Recommended models on Groq are openai/gpt-oss-120b and qwen/qwen3-32b, but make 
sure to have your agent ready to handle function calling errors. 
cascadeflow + Free Models 
cascadeflow supports Groq natively: same install, zero extra config. It also works with 
OpenRouter (100+ models, many free), Ollama for fully local runs, and HuggingFace. 
cascadeflow's model routing runs most queries on a free or cheap model and only escalates 
to a paid API when the quality gate requires it. Every escalation is logged and intentional, 
not accidental, and your free tier goes further as a result. 
Coding Agents 
You can use any coding agent you want (or code by hand), but here are some free options: 
• https://openai.com/codex/ 
• https://jules.google.com/ 
• https://opencode.ai/ (can use with Ollama for local models or with most LLM providers) 
You can also use https://claude.com/product/claude-code but it requires a paid subscription. 
Page 3 
Hackathon Problem Statements – Building AI Agents with Hindsight & cascadeflow 
The easiest way to setup Hindsight in your project is with the hindsight-skills repository: 
https://github.com/vectorize-io/hindsight-skills 
If you’re using Claude Code just run this from your terminal (check the repo for Codex, 
OpenCode and other setup commands): 
git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/vectorize-io/hindsight-skills.git ~/hindsight-skills 
cd ~/hindsight-skills && ./setup 
Once installed, use the slash function /hindsight-architect in your coding agent to set up 
Hindsight.  
There's also a skill for cascadeflow. It's a single file in the main repo — to add it to Claude Code, 
run: 
mkdir -p ~/.claude/skills/cascadeflow 
curl -sL https://github.com/lemony-ai/cascadeflow/raw/refs/heads/main/skills/cascadeflow/SKILL.md -o 
~/.claude/skills/cascadeflow/SKILL.md 
Then start a new Claude Code session and ask it to set up cascadeflow — the skill loads 
automatically. 
Framework and Provider Integrations 
Both Hindsight and cascadeflow work natively with the most popular agent frameworks. Pick the 
one you already know — that is where your authentic voice is, and that is what will make your 
article genuinely interesting to other engineers. 
Agent Frameworks 
The table below shows which frameworks each technology integrates with. Rows with both 
✅
 
are natural combined project stories. 
Framework / Tool 
OpenClaw 
CrewAI 
Vercel AI SDK 
Pydantic AI 
LiteLLM 
LangChain/LangGraph 
Google ADK 
OpenAI Agents SDK 
Hindsight 
✅
docs.hs/openclaw 
✅
docs.hs/crewai 
✅
docs.hs/ai-sdk 
✅
docs.hs/pydantic-ai 
✅
docs.hs/litellm 
cascadeflow 
✅
docs.cf/openclaw 
✅
docs.cf/crewai 
Best for 
Combined projects 
Multi-agent 
✅
docs.cf/vercel-ai 
✅
docs.cf/pydantic-ai 
✅
100+ providers 
— 
— 
— 
n8n 
Claude Code 
— 
✅
docs.hs/claude-code 
✅
docs.cf/langchain 
✅
docs.cf/google-adk 
✅
docs.cf/openai-agents 
✅
docs.cf/n8n 
✅
via gateway 
TS server agents 
Python type-safe 
Provider breadth 
Python chains 
Google stack 
OpenAI-native 
No-code workflows 
Coding agents 
Page 4 
Hackathon Problem Statements – Building AI Agents with Hindsight & cascadeflow 
Full integration docs: docs.cascadeflow.ai/integrations/overview  |  hindsight.vectorize.io/integrations 
Free & Open-Source Model Providers 
You do not have to spend money on API credits. Both products support free and self-hosted model 
providers out of the box. HuggingFace gives you access to thousands of open-source models on a free 
inference tier. Ollama lets you run models completely locally. Groq is fast and has a generous free tier. 
Combine any of these with cascadeflow's budget enforcement and Hindsight's memory layer. 
Provider 
Groq 
Cost 
Free tier 
Hindsight 
cascadeflow 
Notes 
✅
Ollama (local) 
HuggingFace 
Free (local) 
Free tier 
✅
✅
native 
✅
native 
via Ollama / API 
✅
 native 
Recommended starting 
point 
Zero API cost, runs on 
your machine 
1000s of open-source 
models 
vLLM (self-hosted) 
OpenAI / Anthropic 
Free (self-host) 
Paid 
via Ollama 
compat. 
✅
✅
native 
Best for GPU-rich setups 
✅
native 
100+ via LiteLLM 
Varies 
✅
LiteLLM 
native 
✅
via LiteLLM 
Combine w/ cascadeflow 
budget caps 
Azure, Bedrock, Cohere, 
Mistral, etc. 
For HuggingFace with Hindsight: use an OpenAI-compatible endpoint or route via Ollama. For cascadeflow: 
HuggingFace is a native provider — pip install cascadeflow[huggingface] or configure via the providers guide at 
docs.cascadeflow.ai/developers/providers-and-presets. 
Page 5 
Hackathon Problem Statements – Building AI Agents with Hindsight & cascadeflow 
How to Pick a Winning Project 
The difference between a forgettable hackathon demo and one that makes judges (and 
recruiters) pay attention comes down to three things: 
1. Solve a Real Business Problem 
The strongest projects target a workflow that actual companies struggle with. Ask yourself: 
“Would someone pay $50/month for this?” If the answer is yes, you are on the right track. 
Bad: “An AI that remembers your favorite color.” 
Good: “An AI sales assistant that remembers every objection a prospect raised across calls and 
drafts personalized follow-ups.” 
Think about the repetitive, knowledge-heavy tasks in real jobs. The ones where people say “I 
wish someone would just remember all of this for me.” That is your opportunity. 
2. Make Memory and/or Runtime Intelligence the Star 
Your project should make Hindsight’s memory layer and/or cascadeflow’s runtime intelligence 
central and visible. The best projects will show a clear before/after: without the technology the 
agent is generic; with it, the agent becomes dramatically better. 
Some ways to make this shine: 
• Show the agent improving its responses over multiple interactions 
• Have it recall context from days or weeks ago 
• Let it learn user preferences and adapt its behavior 
• Produce a full audit trail of every decision your agent made (model selected, rationale, 
cost, latency) 
• Show a compliance gate routing sensitive inputs to approved models only 
• Build an agent that stays within a budget across 50 runs, not just one  
• Show cost dropping 50%+ after adding cascadeflow routing 
3. Think Like a Demo 
You have limited time to impress judges. Pick a use case where the value is obvious within 60 
seconds of watching. The best hackathon projects tell a story: “Here is the problem. Here is the 
agent solving it. Watch how it gets smarter / cheaper / more controlled.”  
Note: If you’re using a coding agent like Claude Code or Codex, a good resource to help you 
flesh out a good project is GStack by Gary Tan - the CEO of YCombinator. Install the skill using 
the instructions in the repo then use /gstack-office-hours in your coding agent to help flesh out 
your idea. Who knows? Maybe your hackathon project will turn into the next big thing at 
YCombinator! 
Page 6 
Hackathon Problem Statements – Building AI Agents with Hindsight & cascadeflow 
Project Ideas that Show a Real Problem 
The best submissions combine three things: an agent that remembers, an agent that can be 
explained, and a use case worth building. The challenges below are your three building blocks. 
Challenge 1: Show that your agent learns (Hindsight) Demonstrate persistent memory across 
sessions. Show a concrete moment where past experience changed present behavior — 
interaction 1 is generic, interaction 5 is different because of what happened before. That delta is 
the demo. 
Challenge 2: Show that your agent runs smarter (cascadeflow) Add runtime intelligence 
inside your agent loop. This could mean enforcing a token budget and showing graceful 
degradation, routing to faster or cheaper models based on task complexity, cutting latency by 
trying an efficient model first and escalating only when quality requires it, or producing a full 
audit trail of every decision (without capturing user data). Pick the angle that fits your project. 
Show the before and after. 
Challenge 3: Solve a real problem Ask yourself: would someone pay $50/month for this? Pick 
a domain from the ideas below — or bring your own. Avoid student-centric projects. Think 
startup, not homework. 
Project Ideas 
Domain 
Sales 
Sales 
Sales 
Marketing 
Marketing 
Engineering 
Agent Idea 
Deal Intelligence Agent 
Outbound Prospecting Agent 
Proposal & RFP Agent 
Content Strategy Agent 
Social Media Engagement Agent 
Incident Response Agent 
Engineering 
Engineering 
Support 
Support 
Compliance 
Code Review Agent 
CI/CD Pipeline Agent 
Customer Support Agent 
Contract Review Agent 
Regulated Data Processing Agent 
Page 7 
Compliance 
Hackathon Problem Statements – Building AI Agents with Hindsight & cascadeflow 
AI Decision Audit Agent 
Product 
Product 
User Feedback Synthesizer 
Competitive Intelligence Agent 
Product 
Meeting Prep Agent 
For inspiration on what makes ideas worth building: 
https://github.com/msitarzewski/agency-agents 
How to Make Your Project Stand Out 
Tell a Story with Your Demo 
Don’t just show features. Walk through a realistic scenario: “Imagine you are a sales rep on your 
fifth call with a prospect...” Make the judges feel the problem before you show the solution. 
Show the Learning Curve 
The most compelling Hindsight demos show the agent getting noticeably better. Interaction 1: 
generic. Interaction 5: personalized. Interaction 20: feels like it knows you. That progression is 
what makes memory-powered agents exciting. 
Show the Cost Curve 
The most compelling cascadeflow demos show real numbers. “Before: $0.12 per query. After: 
$0.02 per query, same quality.” Or: “Our agent hit its $1 budget and gracefully switched to local 
models instead of crashing.” Engineers love concrete metrics. 
Build Something You Would Put on LinkedIn Tomorrow 
If you wouldn’t proudly post about it, rethink your approach. The best hackathon projects get 
written up as case studies, attract followers, and start conversations. Aim for that. 
Keep the Scope Tight 
You have limited time. A polished agent that does one thing brilliantly beats a sprawling 
prototype that does five things poorly. Pick one workflow, one persona, one clear value 
proposition and nail it. 
Use Real (or Realistic) Data 
Agents that operate on toy data feel like toys but real data isn’t always easy to come by. A good 
solution is to generate synthetic data, but make it realistic. Give your customers real-sounding 
names, your deals real-sounding numbers, your incidents real-sounding error logs. 
Page 8 
Important Rules 
Hackathon Problem Statements – Building AI Agents with Hindsight & cascadeflow 
All teams must ALSO share their project based on challenges from the official content guide. 
Content Guide: Hackathon Content Guide (see official link) 
Your project must clearly demonstrate how Hindsight memory and/or cascadeflow runtime 
intelligence is used in your solution. 
Submission Requirements 
Each team must submit: 
• GitHub Repository with clean, documented code 
• Demo Video showing the agent in action 
• Live Project Demo to judges 
• Content deliverables: All team members must complete an Article, Social Media post, 
and Video as described in the content guide 
• Explanation of how Hindsight memory and/or cascadeflow runtime intelligence is 
used in your solution 
Judging Criteria 
Criteria 
Weight 
What Judges Are Looking For 
Innovation 
Use of Hindsight & 
cascadeflow 
30% 
25% 
Is this a fresh take on a real problem? Does it go beyond obvious 
chatbot territory? 
Is memory and/or runtime intelligence central to the value 
proposition? Does the agent clearly improve over time or 
demonstrate intelligent cost/model control? 
Technical 
Implementation 
User Experience 
20% 
15% 
Is the code clean, well-architected, and functional? Does it handle 
edge cases? 
Is the agent intuitive to interact with? Does the demo flow tell a 
compelling story? 
Real-world Impact 
10% 
Could this solve a genuine problem for real users? Is there a path 
to actual adoption? 
Now stop reading and start building. 
The best way to learn AI agents is to ship one. 